1.adj

par(adj=0.16) 

vary from 0 to 1
0   left Justify
0.5 Centre (default)
1   right Justify

2.ann   #Annotation

par(ann=FALSE)

If set to FALSE, high-level plotting functions calling plot.default do not annotate the plots they produce with axis titles and overall titles. 
The default is to do annotation.


3.User Interactive
ask  #the user is asked for input, before a new figure is drawn
par(ask=TRUE)

4. Background Color
par(bg="Yellow")

Foreground Color
par(fg="green")


5.Color

par(col="Lightgreen")
par(col="#ee3124")

par(col.axis="green")
par(col.lab="green")
par(col.main="green")
par(col.sub="green")



6. box type

par(bty="o") (the default)

possible values
"o","l", "7", "c", "u", or "]" 

par(bty="n") #suppresses the box

7. cex
A numerical value giving the amount by which plotting text and symbols should be magnified relative to the default

par(cex=5)
par(cex.axis=5)
par(cex.lab=7)
par(cex.main=12)
par(cex.sub=10)
par(cin=9)            #character size (width, height) in inches


8. character Size and Rotation
cra  #size of default character (width, height) in ‘rasters’ (pixels). 
crt    #A numerical value specifying (in degrees) how single characters should be rotated
csi    #height of (default-sized) characters in inches. The same as par("cin").


9.cxy  #size of default character (width, height) in user coordinate units. 
par("cxy") is par("cin")/par("pin") scaled to user coordinates. 
Note that c(strwidth(ch), strheight(ch)) for a given string ch is usually much more precise.


10.din  #the device dimensions, (width, height), in inches. 
See also dev.size, which is updated immediately when an on-screen device windows is re-sized.



11. fig
A numerical vector of the form c(x1, x2, y1, y2) which gives the (NDC) coordinates of the figure region in the display region of the device. 
If you set this, unlike S, you start a new plot, so to add to an existing plot use new = TRUE as well.

fin
The figure region dimensions, (width, height), in inches. If you set this, unlike S, you start a new plot.


12.font
An integer which specifies which font to use for text. If possible, device drivers arrange so that 
1 corresponds to plain text (the default), 
2 to bold face, 
3 to italic and 
4 to bold italic. 
Also, font 5 is expected to be the symbol font, in Adobe symbol encoding. 
On some devices font families can be selected by family to choose different sets of 5 fonts.


font.axis
font.lab
font.main
font.sub



13.lab
A numerical vector of the form c(x, y, len) which modifies the default way that axes are annotated
The default is c(5, 5, 7). 


14.las #numeric in {0,1,2,3}; the style of axis labels. 

0: always parallel to the axis [default],
1: always horizontal,
2: always perpendicular to the axis,
3: always vertical.


15.lend #The line end style. This can be specified as an integer or string: 
0 and "round" mean rounded line caps [default];
1 and "butt" mean butt line caps;
2 and "square" mean square line caps.



16.lheight  #The line height multiplier. 
The height of a line of text (used to vertically space multi-line text) is found by multiplying the character height both by the current character expansion 
and by the line height multiplier. Default value is 1. Used in text() and strheight() function.




17.ljoin #The line join style. This can be specified as an integer or string: 

0 and "round" mean rounded line joins [default];
1 and "mitre" mean mitred line joins;
2 and "bevel" mean bevelled line joins.



18.lmitre #The line mitre limit. 
This controls when mitred line joins are automatically converted into bevelled line joins. 
The value must be larger than 1 and the default is 10. Not all devices will honour this setting.


19.lty #The line type. 
Line types can either be specified as an integer 
0=blank, 
1=solid (default), 
2=dashed, 
3=dotted, 
4=dotdash, 
5=longdash, 
6=twodash


Functions such as lines and segments accept a vector of values which are recycled

20.lwd #The line width, 
a positive number, defaulting to 1

Functions such as lines and segments accept a vector of values which are recycled

21. mai
A numerical vector of the form c(bottom, left, top, right) which gives the margin size specified in inches.



22.mar
A numerical vector of the form c(bottom, left, top, right) which gives the number of lines of margin to be specified on the four sides of the plot. 
The default is c(5, 4, 4, 2) + 0.1.


23.mex
mex is a character size expansion factor which is used to describe coordinates in the margins of plots. Note that this does not change the font size, rather specifies the size of font (as a multiple of csi) used to convert between mar and mai, and between oma and omi. 

This starts as 1 when the device is opened, and is reset when the layout is changed (alongside resetting cex). 


24.mfcol, mfrow

A vector of the form c(nr, nc). Subsequent figures will be drawn in an nr-by-nc array on the device by columns (mfcol), or rows (mfrow), respectively. 

In a layout with exactly two rows and columns the base value of "cex" is reduced by a factor of 0.83: if there are three or more of either rows or columns, the reduction factor is 0.66. 

Setting a layout resets the base value of cex and that of mex to 1. 

If either of these is queried it will give the current layout, so querying cannot tell you the order in which the array will be filled. 

Consider the alternatives, layout and split.screen. 


25.mfg
A numerical vector of the form c(i, j) where i and j indicate which figure in an array of figures is to be drawn next (if setting) or is being drawn (if enquiring). The array must already have been set by mfcol or mfrow. 

For compatibility with S, the form c(i, j, nr, nc) is also accepted, when nr and nc should be the current number of rows and number of columns. Mismatches will be ignored, with a warning.


26.mgp
The margin line (in mex units) for the axis title, axis labels and axis line. 
Note that mgp[1] affects title whereas mgp[2:3] affect axis. The default is c(3, 1, 0).


27.new
logical, defaulting to FALSE. If set to TRUE, the next high-level plotting command (actually plot.new) should not clean the frame 
before drawing as if it were on a new device. It is an error (ignored with a warning) to try to use new = TRUE on a device that 
does not currently contain a high-level plot.


28.oma
A vector of the form c(bottom, left, top, right) giving the size of the outer margins in lines of text.


29.omd
A vector of the form c(x1, x2, y1, y2) giving the region inside outer margins in NDC (= normalized device coordinates), 
i.e., as a fraction (in [0, 1]) of the device region


30.omi
A vector of the form c(bottom, left, top, right) giving the size of the outer margins in inches.


31.page #A boolean value indicating whether the next call to plot.new is going to start a new page. 
This value may be FALSE if there are multiple figures on the page.


32.pch
Either an integer specifying a symbol or a single character to be used as the default in plotting points. 
See points for possible values and their interpretation. 
Note that only integers and single-character strings can be set as a graphics parameter (and not NA nor NULL). 

Some functions such as points accept a vector of values which are recycled. 


33.pin
The current plot dimensions, (width, height), in inches.


34.plt
A vector of the form c(x1, x2, y1, y2) giving the coordinates of the plot region as fractions of the current figure region.

35.ps
integer; the point size of text (but not symbols). Unlike the pointsize argument of most devices, this does not change 
the relationship between mar and mai (nor oma and omi). 

What is meant by ‘point size’ is device-specific, but most devices mean a multiple of 1bp, that is 1/72 of an inch. 


36.pty
A character specifying the type of plot region to be used; 
"s" generates a square plotting region and 
"m" generates the maximal plotting region.


37.srt
The string rotation in degrees. See the comment about crt. Only supported by text. 


38.tck
The length of tick marks as a fraction of the smaller of the width or height of the plotting region. 
If tck >= 0.5 it is interpreted as a fraction of the relevant side, 
so if tck = 1 grid lines are drawn. 
The default setting (tck = NA) is to use tcl = -0.5.


39.tcl
The length of tick marks as a fraction of the height of a line of text. 
The default value is -0.5; 
setting tcl = NA sets tck = -0.01 which is S' default.



40.xaxt
A character which specifies the x axis type. Specifying "n" suppresses plotting of the axis. 
The standard value is "s": for compatibility with S values "l" and "t" are accepted but are equivalent to "s": any value other than "n" implies plotting.
